pySCG: Adding documentation to CWE-175 as part of #531 (#687)
ossf/wg-best-practices-os-developers: docs/Secure-Coding-Guide-for-Python/CWE-707/CWE-175/README.md

>[!NOTE]
> Running the code examples for this rule might generate the following error message: `locale.Error: unsupported locale setting`
> It's usually thrown when the locales used for the examples are not available on the OS. For these examples, you will need the following locales:
>
> * de_DE.utf8
> * en_IE.utf8
> * tr_TR.utf8
> * uk_UA.utf8
>
> The method of installing locales depends on the OS. To install locales on Debian, do the following:
>
> 1. run `sudo dpkg-reconfigure locales`
> 2. select the needed locales (make sure they are uncommented in /etc/locale.gen)
> 3. run `sudo locale-gen`

For example, Python does not handle the Turkish dotted-i as expected.

[*example01.py:*](example01.py)

```py
""" Code Example """
import locale

> word = "Title"

Reviewer: Getting:
Constant name "word" doesn't conform to UPPER_CASE naming stylePylint[C0103:invalid-name](https://pylint.readthedocs.io/en/latest/user_guide/messages/convention/invalid-name.html)
Maybe just capitalise "word" variable to silence the linters?

> word = "Title"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WORD = "Title"
```

*[compliant01.py](compliant01.py):*

```python
""" Compliant Code Example """
import datetime, locale
 
dt = datetime.datetime(2022, 3, 9, 12, 55, 35, 000000)

#####################
# Trying to exploit above code example
#####################

locale.setlocale(locale.LC_ALL, CURRENT_LOCALE)
# Month is 'March'
currmonth = dt.month
locale.setlocale(locale.LC_ALL, OTHER_LOCALE)
# Month is 'березень', i.e. berezen’
othermonth = dt.month
 
if currmonth == othermonth:
    print("Locale-independent months are equal")
else:
    print("Locale-independent months are not equal")
```

## Compliant Solution (Explicit Locale)

Set the locale to the locale the program was developed or validated against, to ensure that locale-dependent programs are not affected by running on a system with a different locale.

*[example02.py](example02.py):*

```python
""" Compliant Code Example """
import locale
CURRENT_LOCALE = 'en_IE.utf8'
locale.setlocale(locale.LC_ALL, CURRENT_LOCALE)
```

For example, reading values from a data file values might be misinterpreted if the developer is unaware that the program locale does not accommodate the data locale.

> This simple code example does not set a locale and sets `ORIGINAL_NUMBER` for comparison to 12.345 (twelve point three-four-five). In Ireland, a comma is a thousands separator and a dot is a decimal separator. In Germany these are reversed, so a comma is a decimal separator and a decimal is a thousands separator.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `example03.py` code does not set a locale and sets `ORIGINAL_NUMBER` for comparison to 12.345 (twelve point three-four-five). In Ireland, a comma is a thousands separator and a dot is a decimal separator. In Germany these are reversed, so a comma is a decimal separator and a decimal is a thousands separator.
```

>[!NOTE]
> Running the code examples for this rule might generate the following error message: `locale.Error: unsupported locale setting`
> It's usually thrown when the locales used for the examples are not available on the OS. For these examples, you will need the following locales:
>
> * de_DE.utf8
> * en_IE.utf8
> * tr_TR.utf8
> * uk_UA.utf8
>
> The method of installing locales depends on the OS. To install locales on Debian, do the following:
>
> 1. run `sudo dpkg-reconfigure locales`
> 2. select the needed locales (make sure they are uncommented in /etc/locale.gen)
> 3. run `sudo locale-gen`

For example, Python does not handle the Turkish dotted-i as expected.

[*example01.py:*](example01.py)

```py
""" Code Example """
import locale
WORD = "Title"
print(WORD.upper())

> locale.setlocale(locale.LC_ALL, "tr_TR.utf8")
> print(WORD.upper())
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
print(WORD.upper())
locale.setlocale(locale.LC_ALL, "tr_TR.utf8")
print(WORD.upper())
```

When using `setlocale()`, ensure that it is not set in libraries or set more than once in multi-threaded programs. [[Python 3.9 locale](https://docs.python.org/3.9/library/locale.html)]

*[example03.py](example03.py):*

```python
""" Code Example """
import locale
ORIGINAL_NUMBER = 12.345  # This will read as 12,345 in German

def compare_number(number):
    input_number = locale.atof(input("Enter a number: "))
    # Test if inputted number equals current number
    return number == input_number

print(f"Locale is {locale.getlocale()}")
print(f"Do the numbers match? {compare_number(ORIGINAL_NUMBER)}")

# Console output:
# Locale is ('English_Ireland', '1252')
# Enter a number: 12,345
# Do the numbers match? False

# After setting the locale

locale.setlocale(locale.LC_ALL, 'de_DE.utf8')
print(f"Locale is {locale.getlocale()}")
print(f"Do the numbers match? {compare_number(ORIGINAL_NUMBER)}")

# Console output:
# Locale is ('de_DE', 'UTF-8')
# Enter a number: 12,345
# Do the numbers match? True

```

## Non-Compliant Code Example (Encoding)

> The developer should be aware of the text encoding that is used for input data and output data in the program. The code example attempts to use UTF-16 LE encoding to read the LOREM `TextIOWrapper` stream which raises a `UnicodeDecodeError` exception as it was created with UTF-8.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The developer should be aware of the text encoding that is used for input data and output data in the program. The code example attempts to use `UTF-16 LE` encoding to read the LOREM `TextIOWrapper` stream which raises a `UnicodeDecodeError` exception as it was created with `UTF-8`.
```

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit, sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam, quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi ut aliquip ex ea commodo consequat. Duis aute irure dolor in reprehenderit in voluptate velit esse cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur. Excepteur sint occaecat cupidatat non proident, sunt in culpa qui officia deserunt mollit anim id est laborum.
Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit, sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam, quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi ut aliquip ex ea commodo consequat. Duis aute irure dolor in reprehenderit in voluptate velit esse cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur. Excepteur sint occaecat cupidatat non proident, sunt in culpa qui officia deserunt mollit anim id est laborum."""

output = io.BytesIO()
wrapper = io.TextIOWrapper(output, encoding='utf-8', line_buffering=True)
wrapper.write(LOREM)
wrapper.seek(0, 0)

> print(f"{len(output.getvalue().decode('utf-16le'))} characters in string")
> #####################
> # exploiting above code example
> #####################
> # UnicodeDecodeError: 'utf-16-le' codec can't decode byte 0x2e in position 1336: truncated data

Reviewer 2: Not an exploit, comment is enough
```suggestion
# Below outputs UnicodeDecodeError: 'utf-16-le' codec can't decode byte 0x2e in position 1336: truncated data
print(f"{len(output.getvalue().decode('utf-16le'))} characters in string")
```

```

## Compliant Solution (Encoding)

> The correct text encoding, UTF-8 for the LOREM `TextIOWrapper` stream has been included in the program. Ensure the encoding of data is known and explicitly stated when parsing and creating data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The correct text encoding, `UTF-8` for the LOREM `TextIOWrapper` stream has been included in the program. Ensure the encoding of data is known and explicitly stated when parsing and creating data.
```

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit, sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam, quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi ut aliquip ex ea commodo consequat. Duis aute irure dolor in reprehenderit in voluptate velit esse cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur. Excepteur sint occaecat cupidatat non proident, sunt in culpa qui officia deserunt mollit anim id est laborum.
Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit, sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam, quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi ut aliquip ex ea commodo consequat. Duis aute irure dolor in reprehenderit in voluptate velit esse cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur. Excepteur sint occaecat cupidatat non proident, sunt in culpa qui officia deserunt mollit anim id est laborum."""

output = io.BytesIO()
wrapper = io.TextIOWrapper(output, encoding='utf-8', line_buffering=True)
wrapper.write(LOREM)
wrapper.seek(0, 0)

> print(f"{len(output.getvalue().decode('utf-8'))} characters in string")
> #####################
> # exploiting above code example
> #####################
> # 1337 characters in string

Reviewer 2: We are not exploiting anything here, comment is enough
```suggestion
# 1337 characters in string
print(f"{len(output.getvalue().decode('utf-8'))} characters in string")
```
